Hey, everybody. Welcome back to episode two of the Bits and Barbells podcast. I am one of your hosts, Baxate, and I'm here with my cohost. I'm Ben, and today's episode is all about success in college, how to succeed in both your grades outside of just the classroom, and everything related to that. If you did miss last episode, we talked about how to get your first internship, particularly when talking about software engineering. So if that pertains to you, then go watch that one. But without further ado, I say we get right into the episode. So the first thing we're going to talk about when it comes to success in college is really the biggest transition you'll make, which is from a high school to college. Whether you were or weren't a good student in high school, I think that there's a lot of changes that happen when you go and you go pursue higher education. So, Ben, if you want to start us off with that topic, that's kind of funny you're talking about if you weren't that great in high school. Yeah. So I think the biggest point from that transition period from high school to college is really the mindset. Right. Because in high school, you have this kind of constrained problem space you're working in. You have this very localized environment, to speak in CS terms, super localized. Right. Like, you're just in your high school, you do your classes wherever you go home, and you have like a very, very limited day to day life. Right. Maybe you're an athlete, maybe you're a student athlete. Maybe you have a sport after school. Maybe you have some clubs that you join and those kind of occupy your time on certain days during the week. But when you go to college, it's kind of like the Wild West, right? You have this kind of wide open terrain, and you just have free roam over everything. And I think that's kind of like the biggest area of difficulty that people have to deal with. Right. It's definitely not easy having that much freedom. Yeah, no, I think you're absolutely right. I would say that to even narrow it one step in the biggest difference that I personally noticed is you have total autonomy over your time. When I think about my high school, it started around 08:00 A.m., I think. But if you have a preschool program, then maybe you're starting at seven, and then maybe you have an after school athletic program, and that way it's literally maybe seven until five. You have just back to back responsibilities with college, even a fully loaded schedule, you'll have maybe hour to two hour, sometimes three hour gaps in between your classes, multiple of those per day. And so how you sort of manage your time and how you decide to spend it is not only pivotal to how you'll succeed in the classroom, but also what you can gain out of the whole college experience. Yeah, I'm just remembering back to college. We both went to college in Atlanta, right? And school started in August, so super sweltering and hot outside. I remember freshman year, I came in and I remember on my first day of class, I had that first class, and then I was like, man, I got a couple of hours until my next one, went back to the dorm and just laid on the bed and slept for a little bit. So, yeah, you're absolutely right. You have these pockets of time, and so, really, it comes down to the first time in your life that you really have to manage your own schedule. And this kind of goes back to the localized environment argument. It's like, okay, everything is kind of managed for you. And like you said, the autonomy you have to then manage yourself in this new environment. Yeah, no, that's absolutely right. And I think that a couple of other things that you have to learn when you go to college beyond just managing your time for a lot of people, is stuff that they maybe took for granted, especially living at home. Little things, right? Doing your laundry, feeding yourself, or even if it's not, you might have a dining hall, but eating healthy, right? I think that so many people get to college and they treat it almost like an extended summer camp. And therefore, I remember this is an anecdotal story, but I personally have always been sort of health conscious. And I remember freshman year, I don't know if you saw these people, but at the buffets, they would have basically a pile of fries, and they'd be downing, like, massive jugs of Seven Up or Fancier at, like, 07:00 A.m.. Yeah. So on the kind of dining hall argument, I remember eating fries because it was like, man, there's nothing else that's even good to eat here, bro. The fries are usually, like, just the de facto, right? You just kind of go to them because you're like, man, the fries, they can't miss. So yeah, I mean, that's another thing, right? Food is massive, right? Because you have three meals a day, hopefully at least three meals a day, but some people would hit up the dining hall, like, more than that, right? And that can be kind of dangerous, but we can kind of dive into that on a different episode. I feel like I feel like the biggest thing let's just even talk about the first week of school, right? It is like a summer camp, right, because everybody's showing up. If you're a freshman, you're just a freshman, right, and everybody is literally in a playground and they're just trying to meet as many people as possible. I remember literally just sitting at random tables, like that first week, that first two weeks, just literally just showing up to a random table, sitting down and be like, hey, my name is Ben, right? And people are like, all right. Who are you? Why is this guy sitting here? And you just kind of have to spawn these relationships out of thin air to try to find the people that you want to hang out with. Absolutely. I think that's great advice. I think you should do the same thing in your classes. Even if you're someone who's maybe not super outwardly social, now's the time to what I said actually is I'm someone who had a very tight knit group in high school, but when I went to college, it was something that and this is not doable for everybody. It's something that worked for me, but it's something you can try is I decided, you know what, I'm going to be the super extroverted person now. I'm going to be social. Because I went in and there were no preconceived notions of how I acted or anything. And so I did similarly to what you were doing and just tried to become friends with as many people as possible and really get outside my comfort zone. And you'd be surprised at how quickly that can become your new normal. And once you realize, oh, it's not as scary meeting 100 new people in a week as I previously thought. And those connections can last with you. Some of them will become your best friends, maybe even for a lifetime. But in the worst case scenario, somebody who you then see two years later junior year and you're like, oh, hey, you were in my freshman math class. Yeah. Or hey, I sat at the table with you for like 3 seconds. That one week freshman year, right? Exactly. I think that's actually how we probably met too, is like this kind of just breath for search approach, right. You just kind of spawn and just try to talk to as many people as possible. I feel like we just crossed paths at some point. Can't quite figure out where it was, but we did cross paths. We did exchange social medias and I guess the rest is history. Four years later, five years later, it just comes back. Yeah. So to sum that part up, really, I think that there's going to be a lot of changes when you're going from high school to college. Do not at all try and treat it the same way, but be open to the new things, embrace the new things and focus on the stuff that is really high leverage. Right. So making those connections, focusing on your health and focusing on time management skills, building that early on with this newfound free time that you have. Is there anything else you'd like to add to that? Yeah, I just want to talk about the social aspect that first couple of weeks freshmere because I feel like it is so pivotal because you'll see so many people just like clicking up or creating new groups and it can be kind of stressful. It is actually very stressful. I feel like because you have that pressure of, like, man, what if I don't find the people that I vibe with? Or, man, what if this kind of flies by me? Then I'm just kind of by myself. And so you really have to just elevate your mentality, I feel like, for that couple of weeks, and just kind of fight through that social anxiety, fight through that discomfort and just really just be a warrior. Yeah, I agree with that. There were classes right, where maybe the schedules just didn't line up, and I ended up taking classes virtually alone. And this is your junior year or whatever, and those people already kind of have those, and it is an incredibly isolating feeling. And to sort of go into freshman year and just commit yourself to that, I feel like is doing yourself a major disservice to just basically be like, you know what, I'm going to be a lone wolf for the next four years. I think that's incredibly damaging. Yeah. I don't think you can honestly succeed if you're a lone wolf in college, because it's like I remember literally every single class, like, freshman year and onwards at the start of the semester, you're looking at the people tab on Canvas or whatever online platform you have. You're, like, scoping out the people tab to see, okay, who do I know in this class? Who can I just message really quick to kind of get on the same study group or homework grind or test grind or whatever. Right. It's like having that core nexus you develop freshman year is really going to carry you forward throughout the rest of your college. It's not just localized to freshman year. Right. It's something that is more important than you think. Right? Absolutely. I think we can actually talk more about that when it comes to when we discuss how to get good grades right. How to get a really high GPA. But before we get onto that, something that we should talk about is especially for all the people if you're about to go to college, or maybe you're already in college and you are majoring in something that it wasn't a fully committed decision, either undecided or maybe you decided to major in something because you thought it sounded cool. Whatever. Deciding your major is a very, very big decision. And apart from maybe where you decided to go to college, I would say this might be the next biggest decision you've maybe made in your entire life at this point, mainly because it determines really your eligibility for your future career, which obviously is the goal after college. So, Ben, do you have any ideas or anything you'd like to talk about when it comes to actually picking a major? Yeah, I mean, I can just kind of talk about my personal experience. I don't know about you, Carter, but coming into college, I actually applied with electrical engineering because I actually did electrical engineering research in high school, and I really enjoyed it. But my summer before college, I actually interned at this lab near Georgia Tech called the Georgia Tech Research Institute. And I did this kind of role anyways, it's not even worth going into, but essentially I just figured out, okay, the industry side of electrical engineering is a little bit different than me just putting together breadboards in my house. And so then I kind of came in with a knowledge before I even stepped foot on campus, hey, I'm going to be switching to computer science out the gate. And so for me, I was lucky to have that kind of precursor experience to kind of form my opinion going forwards about the career that I wanted. But for anybody who doesn't have that, really what it comes down to is you just need to do a ton of research, right, and really understand your own self, your personality, and the goals you have for your future. I think that's great. I was going to say something along a very similar vein, which is you need to know what the types of jobs you can get from your major are before you pick it or definitely while you're in it, because, like I said, it more or less is the eligibility for those jobs. You cannot really become a software engineer if you're studying something like communications. It's just not going to happen. And so knowing what sort of options you have with your major should be a big determining factor. And something we cannot ignore is, of course, the financials. College can be very expensive, and I'm not going to tell you whether you should or should not go into student loan debt, but I will say that having a plan to get out of student loan debt if you decide to take that on, is something that should be thought of. And certain majors make more money than others, and certain majors are incredibly hard to make money. And this is not a secret. It's not like we go in blind and then come out and realize there's no potential jobs for our degree. You can do that research on your own right now, and I encourage you to do that. At 18 years old, it can seem like, oh, that's forever away. I don't have to worry about that. It'll come quicker than you realize. And we're not talking about an insignificant amount of money in some cases. So as far as that's more of a, I guess, utilitarian approach to picking your major. It's less about passion, but I think that everybody can find a major that they're passionate about that also has job prospects, and I encourage you to try and merge the two. That's all great. Carter I just remembered a story from my college interview days when I was interviewing for Princeton. My interviewer was somebody who majored in religion, and then she worked as a stunt double. Like that was her job. Just kind of this like this random it's like okay, you know, Princeton is an expensive school and you're going to study religion and then become a stunt double. In know it's like maybe she didn't quite have this practical kind of edge going into college, but I feel like it is definitely super worthwhile to think practically when kind of getting yourself in this big financial decision. Absolutely. But at the end of the day, don't go into something just because you think it'll make you a lot of money. Because we are talking about four years of studying something that you may personally really not like, not have an aptitude for. And what's worse is after that comes 40 years of a career that you may not like. So don't go purely based on the money, but it is something to keep in mind. Yeah, I mean, ideally you have not only the knowledge of what careers can come of this major, but also, like, in my case, I had personal hands on experience with that kind of job. Or the next best option is to talk to people who are employed in that profession and get an understanding of what their day to day life is like and what things they enjoy do not enjoy about their job. Right. That's very important. Yeah, that's great. And if you're watching us, for example, you might be interested in software engineering. That's exactly what you need to be doing. Gather as much information on people who are in that field, see if it's something you might want to do. So if you're watching us or listening to us, then you're already on the right track. So congrats on that. So now I want to talk about more specifically how to succeed in college and specifically through the lens of getting good grades. Because I think that a GPA, it matters more in some fields than it does in others. But we do all sort of have this underlying number that we can attach to every class we take in college. That's more or less a metric of how we did in that class. And obviously there's a number of different things that can go into that, but there are ways to achieve those higher grades. And so I wonder if you have any tips on that, ben yeah, I think succeeding academically is such a huge kind of subject. You really need to break it down in terms of categories. Right. And so we did kind of briefly touch on this earlier. There is the social aspect, your immediate network of people, you know, in that class who can help you study, help you prepare for exams, that kind of thing. And that is super important. Right. I cannot stress this enough. That is hyper important. Probably more important than basically anything else, to be honest, because those people are also going to serve as your kind of support group, right. Especially in computer science or closely related Stem field it's not easy all the time. And so when you guys are crying at 03:00 A.m. Before that test, the next day, or the same day rather, it helps to do it with people around you, right? Yeah, absolutely. I think that having a group of people who you take classes with I know that I had a group of probably two to three people who I took and they weren't even in my fraternity, which we'll talk about later. I know that's very common, but it's people who I took the same classes with, we would literally design our schedules to take the same classes at the same times so that you have that person or people to study with, to collaborate with. Yes. I think it will concretely increase your GPA by a significant amount. Another notion that I talk about is people ask about study habits or study hacks. I have some videos on this, on my personal TikTok, but some of the biggest things for me is I think that so many people study wrong in that resources are not all created equally. At least at Georgia Tech, almost all of my professors had a sort of different types of study resources I would get and I would always put previous exams from previous semesters at top of the list. Some teachers would give these, some wouldn't, but even if they didn't, then they would do maybe review problems in class or there would be a review session where a Ta would go over problems. Right. Anything that's going to be more closely related to the stuff you'd see on the exams. That should be top of mind and that should be the stuff that you look at first. I use the example where if there's an exam and it says, oh, material from chapter one to ten, don't open the textbook and start reading at chapter one. You could do that the entire night and cram all the material in without ever practicing a problem. And then you get to the exam and I hear this all the time. Right. This isn't what we learned in class. That might be true sometimes. It was my experience that that virtually never happened. Anyone who said that was maybe studying the wrong materials, not prioritizing the certain resources they should have been, et cetera. And so my tip to you there would be look at the study resources that have the highest impact, which are the ones that are most closely related to the exams, you'll see? Yeah. I mean, you can find old exams like on Chegg back in the day, or course, like the course hero one is like you upload the test or whatever and then you get credits to then unlock other documents on the website. Not advocating for anything suspect on this platform whatsoever, but that is an option. Use it as you will. I think another thing that is an important subject is the concept of a problem based class which is kind of the approach that you were talking about, where the textbook is not that useful necessarily, because you need to practice the problems as opposed well, there are two components. You need to learn the concepts and then apply those concepts to problems. Right. But you're kind of advocating for the step backwards approach, which is look at the problems first and then work backwards. What do I need to know to solve this? But there are also just classes that are pure knowledge based where you do just need to read through the textbook. One of my go to's was, I'm not advocating you do this, but I had a habit of procrastination. Right. And so I would usually sit down a day or two before this test was to take place, and I would literally crap open the textbook. And I'm a pretty fast typer, so I would literally just essentially outline the entire textbook. I would just read through it and type concurrently as I'm reading through it to kind of seal in those concepts. And I would just literally go through all the chapters. And that worked for me. But it may not work for you. Right. It's kind of specific to my skill set. But I will say the textbook can be useful. You just have to know what class to apply it to. Right. So something that is more just pure knowledge based, like a psychology class, for example, a textbook is going to be your best friend in that class, as opposed to something like data structures class, where a textbook can just be like banging your head against a wall because it won't do that much. Yeah, I think you touched on two really good things there. The first one is that clearly we had different study habits. Find what works for you. So don't just apply what I said directly or apply what Ben said directly. If it's not working for you, it's not working. Find what works for you. This is just what happened to work for us. The second one is it depends on the class. And another thing that I preach over and over and over is learn the teacher in addition to the material. Because different teachers will have different testing styles, will have different things that they emphasize or just completely omit, even if it's the exact same course. Right. There can be two sections going on concurrently. This was very common at Georgia Tech. Let's say it's MATLAB an entry level CS course, and they're learning the same units, it's the same materials, and yet the tests will look totally different. And so you need to listen to your professor in class. Look at know, I consistently say the lowest exams or the lowest grades I got on every exam was always the first exam of every always. Because after that, I know the format, I know what they like to ask, I know what showed up on the exam based on what they said in class. And then I look for patterns. I'm someone who's very analytical and logical in those things. And I think that you can absolutely learn the teacher and use that to your advantage and try and predict what the stuff they said, will that show up on the exam or not? To varying degrees of accuracy, but I think it is pretty good, honestly. Yeah, I know that's a great point is kind of being like Sherlock Holmes. You have to kind of analyze psychoanalyze the teacher too, right? Because you're not just battling this kind of domain of knowledge that you need to learn. I use this as an analogy. You're not actually battling the teacher, but you need to kind of play like Psychology of Warfare with them. You need some sun tzu. You need to figure out, okay, what is my quote unquote enemy going to do? Right? How are they plotting to do this thing against me? And I need to figure that out and then just kind of crack through. But also something I think we kind of missed on is before the semester even starts, you will have access to register for your classes, right? And so usually there will be sites where you can see what a specific professor does, their rating or their style. People give reviews before the semester even starts. You should kind of have an idea of what you're getting yourself into. If this professor has like a 1.5 star rating, you know that you're going to be in for a difficult semester. So definitely be cognizant of that going into the semester. I don't know whatever site that your college uses for evaluating teachers, there are those, I can't even remember the names of them now. Rate, my professor. That's classic. And so I agree 100%. I think that additionally, this podcast is meant for people more than just studying computer science. But many big schools now have gotten and competitive schools have gotten to the point where class registrations are in and of itself a competitive process to where getting into the good sections can be fairly difficult. And so putting some thought into building your schedules every semester in a way that you have the best opportunity to take these good professors is another thing that will have a, again, concrete increase in your GPA. So don't just blindly fly through registration. I did that sometimes it never worked out well. Plan your schedules ahead of time and this works differently at every college and university, but at least for us, we had actually a lot of flexibility in terms of these are all the classes you need to take. Here are the prerequisites for certain classes you build your schedule. If you want to take all your hardest classes your senior year graduating, you can do that if you want. Not recommending it, but you don't recommend that. Please do not do that. Yeah, so, yeah, that's some of the stuff that we did to do well in our classes. The age old question, does GPA matter? Neither of us are hiring managers, so we can't say that conclusively. I will say that my GPA was something that recruiters and interviewers brought up as like, wow, you did incredibly well. That's good to see. Whether it got me my job, I don't know. But I do think that it can be a differentiating factor and definitely, if it's really, really bad, be something that hinders you. Yeah. I don't know where this idea came about that GPA doesn't matter in tech because it absolutely does. Right. Certain employers actually have cutoffs where during the resume scraping stage, they will literally just throw out a chunk of resumes that have GPA below a certain amount. Right. And I think another thing that we need to touch on is GPA is in itself an honest indicator. It is objective, it is truth, it is what your performance in your classes has been up to this date. Right. So it is very much representative of how well you have mastered. There's, like a strong correlation between your mastery of the curriculum and your GPA. Right. It's not just saying, oh, my dog died before the final and I messed up that one time. Sure. If that happens one time, maybe you get one B, maybe you get one C. Sure. But if you make that B and C, getting a habit, that's absolutely going to be reflected in this GPA, which is the source of truth. Right. So you can't just neglect this thing because it is the source of truth that employers look at. Yeah, I completely agree. My dad is actually in DAC academia, and the single largest predictor of success of college students once they actually attend the university was their high school GPA. That's the number one indicator of do they succeed in college. I imagine there's something similar for performance in the workplace. I'm not sure if that's true. That's not one that I know, but like you said, it's a culmination of four years of sort of your hard work and everything. So that number is probably pretty indicative of how you are as a student. Right. I mean, like one semester where you mess up, it's not going to hurt you. Right, because it's just one semester. But if you make that semester a habit, then your GPA is just going to be bad. Right. So it is a very honest signal, as I said before. Yeah, that's great. I want to move on from that a little bit, because college is so much more than just your grades, and being successful in college, in my opinion, is so much more than just a high GPA. And I want to actually open this section by challenging a popular notion that I've heard around it's, particularly put through the lens of engineering, but I'm sure it can be applied to other ones, which is that in engineering or a. Hard major. Let's just say that you can pick two of the following three things sleep, grades, or a social life. And the sort of meaning behind that is you can't do all three. If you pick two, one of the other ones is going to suffer. And I think that's not true even a little bit. This is just listing my credentials a little bit. I graduated with a 3.97 GPA out of 4.0. That's one B in my entire college career. I was the president of my fraternity in college, so I had a party life as well. I slept an average of literally eight to 10 hours a night. I prioritized sleep like crazy. And then I also went to the gym. I'm going to add another one, which is health. It's five to six times a week. And if I could do it, you can do it too. It comes down to a number of different things, but we're going to talk about how to sort of succeed in those categories beyond just grades. Ben, I wonder if you have anything to jump off of that. Yeah, I mean, grades are important, right? And I did mention that it's a very important thing for getting a job. But college is so much more than your grades. It's this four year period in your life, very unique period of time where you have the opportunity to grow into a person, right? And a person is not only it's so many things, right, but you have to actually just undergo experiences and that kind of falls into the social bucket. I see a mistake that a lot of people make is they'll put too much eggs into one of these categories, right? Like the grades one, for example, this is the classic one in CS where you'll see some guy just like hole up in his apartment the entire year, just like battling. He has like a 40 or whatever, but did absolutely nothing the rest of the year. And they don't have a fulfilling life because they have no experiences to pull from later on. Right. And I feel like what makes a person interesting is the sum of your experiences, right? And so you really need to prioritize acquiring experiences. I mean, not for acquiring experiences sake, but just try new things to hopefully become like, figure out who you are. It's super important. Super important, absolutely. I couldn't have put it better myself. I think that when you said about being interesting, I say this all the time, I say don't be boring. I think that it's very easy to not be boring. And this is actually a mistake I made my freshman year of college because I was that person who studied all the time, didn't really go out, didn't have fun, didn't really socialize. I mean, beyond the people in my classes, which we've already mentioned. But I didn't have those experiences. And at the end of year one, I had my 4.0 and I was like, well, this doesn't feel like I'm achieving something. Like, yes, I'm getting a 4.0, but this isn't the college experience I heard about. I'm not any different than I was a year ago after high school, and I think that's the biggest thing, right. I knew that there were things I wanted to change. And so prioritizing, like you said, experiences and understanding that this is a time where maybe the last time in your life, hopefully, where your only responsibility is yourself. Right. You have no responsibility to anyone else. And that means that it's the time that you should ruthlessly try and better yourself because you have all the resources to do so. And putting, like you said, all of your effort into just grades will do absolutely nothing on that other side of you. And nobody likes I'm sorry, but nobody likes the kid who did nothing but study for all four years, got a 4.0 and is just boring. Yeah, I mean, we kind of had opposite experiences. So I came into college 4.0. I took like 14 APS in high school, had like a 4.4 something weighted GPA. Coming into college, never got to be in my life. My first semester, man, that was a rough adjustment for me because I'd never gone out before. So I was going out, I was doing things, I was having fun, I was discovering who I am, right? And I got a couple of bees that semester and I was like, Damn, I just got some bees. But it made me realize important lessons. And then going forward, I made the adjustment. But having those experiences and obviously I didn't fail any classes or anything. I only got a couple of B's. So have the experiences, but also keep yourself in check to not just completely mess up the other categories. Right, so do the other categories, but don't mess up anyone too badly. Right. And then I guess we can kind of just jump into the health kind of fourth bucket. Yeah, I would say sleep and health can kind of be grouped together, definitely. But yeah, I think that I mentioned the people who come in freshman year and are in the dining halls doing nothing but drinking soda or putting those pile of fries even though you said that that might be your strat sometimes. The fry strat always wins. But you're an adult now, and being an adult is also taking care of yourself. And a huge part of that is your health. And it's very easy when you are prioritizing these other things that we just mentioned to forget about it because this is the time in your life where you're sort of healthy by default. As long as you don't do anything aggressively bad, you're healthy by default. And so it can kind of go into the back of your brain, but that is so dangerous because then you have the people who are doing exactly what we said, which is picking two of the three, and they go social grades, and all of a sudden their sleep is bad at the freshman 15. How can we forget the freshman 15? Exactly. Right. That's a perfect example of that. But their diet's bad, their sleep is bad, and people also don't seem to realize this. That affects the other two buckets. Guys, your grades will get worse if you're not thinking right and you are on low sleep. So it's also not hard to do. Many of these schools, georgia Tech, maybe we were even a little bit more privileged, but our recreation center, they called it, but it was the gymnasium. Gymnasium? Yeah. German word was incredible. I mean, like, just a perfect environment to go between classes and know, just insane workouts. Everyone's in there to better themselves. And so that with sort of places like that on every campus, even although they might not be as nice, I think there's no excuse to gain the freshman 15 and let this side of your life, which is so important, because it's the only thing that will last long after college. Your degree is going to help you get your job right. Your social life is going to be a bunch of experiences in your brain, but your body is the thing you take with you for the rest of your life. And so you need to put effort into that early and build those habits and do not let those because the bad decisions compound, the good decisions compound make an effort. Even in college. Yeah. I think this is another thing that you mentioned that's super important is you and me coming into college. We were both very health oriented. We both worked out in high school, so we already came into college with a solid foundation. Right. Kind of touching on the social bucket. Most of the closest friends I had in college were found in the gym. The gym is not just a place to better yourself. It's a place to meet other people, too, and people who are very like minded to yourself. So it touches multiple buckets, I feel like. So it's super important. And another thing is your body is like we talked about how GPA is an honest indicator. Your body is an honest indicator. It is the net representation of what you've put into it for your entire life. Right. The calories in versus the calories out. Your body in itself is an honest representation of what you have put into it. And no time in your life will you ever have more of an opportunity to take care of your body and have the freedom of time to put into your body as you will during college. I think high school is pretty up there, but I think college is number one. I agree with that wholeheartedly something that you mentioned about the honest indicator. Reminds me of a comment that I received on my TikTok that I actually kind of looked at kind of funny, which they said, do you think your looks helped you in getting your job? And I don't know if they meant that more as sort of the things that I was inherently born with, like my height or whatever, but I interpreted that in a very different way. And I remembered myself going back to when I was very much not as confident, less fit, pre gym backstate days, and then contrasting that with how I walk into an interview now and how I can speak confidently on camera and all that stuff. And I attribute a lot of that to things that were changed in the gym. It won't just happen overnight, but the confidence builds over time. As a man, you take up more space, you fill out a room a little bit more, people, whether you like to admit it or not, respect you more. And so I absolutely think that the stature that I've built through the gym could have had a non insignificant impact on maybe some of my interviews due to just inherent bias. Looks matter, guys. That's just the world we live in. We're not here to deny truths of reality. So there's more benefits. Again, this is about the bleeding of the buckets, right? Where I think there can be some spillover. Yeah. I didn't mean to interrupt you, but yeah, they definitely all bleed together. Yeah. And then we talked a lot about the gym. There the other component. There is obviously sleep. I don't know what your sleeping habits were like in college, if you want to talk about that at all. Yeah, I would say freshman year, I neglected sleep to a large degree, and that was a so some backstory COVID happened for us our sophomore year of college. And so about halfway through sophomore year, we got a little bit through the second semester, then COVID happened and we basically went back home. At least I did. I don't know about you, but I went back home and then I started getting my sleep right. And I was like, wow, I feel a lot better, and my mind is so much sharper. And it was kind of like a realization point, like, okay, I need to really prioritize this thing that I haven't necessarily been prioritizing. Yeah, I think it's definitely one of those things where, especially when you're young, you hear about the benefits of sleep and you hear about these things. Yeah, I know I should be better at it, but I actually function better off of five and a half hours of sleep. I don't know why. I'm just weird like that. Which, by the way, if you say that you function better under 6 hours of sleep, that is virtually and probabilistically impossible. There's so many studies on that. I think there is, like, one gene mutation or something that affects an insignificant part of the population. I think my uncle has this he wakes up at like, 03:00 A.m. And goes, works out. Don't bank on that. Do not bank on this. Because I will say as being like a full time employee now, I feel like I've dialed in every aspect of my life to such a great degree that when one, I'll miss a night of sleep and I'm like, whoa, that was a big punch to the gut, right? You feel it immediately. Yeah, no, I've noticed that too, because I've had very similar experiences. Whereas before you might have this sort of average level of bad health, sleep, whatever, that your brain. You get used to that fog, and then once you finally clear it up, it might be a gradual experience to clearing it up. But when that goes down again, you're like, whoa. Yeah. I mean, it's like once you've been operating on that peak efficiency, you take a little bit of a hit and you feel it. You feel it right away. Yeah. And that's also part of the reason why I am so against the concept of an all nighter when it comes to studying. I know that maybe you have I don't know. I can't remember if you said you've pulled any, but to me, I knew for myself that the detriment I would get to my mental clarity and my mental acuity from the lack of sleep far outweighed any of the benefits I got from the extra hours of studying. Yeah, I pulled a couple of all nighters. I think I did one per semester my freshman year, so I did two my freshman year. Obviously after you do your first one, you're like, I'm never doing that again. And then for me, after the second one was I was really like, okay, I'm never doing that again. And so then going forward, I basically again, I had this bad habit of procrastination, so I would wait until maybe the day before the exam, and I would sit down and be like, okay, Ben, it's time to study for this test. Let's go. And so I would study, but I would have a hard limit of 10:00 P.m., and once 10:00 P.m. Hit, I would go sleep. And then I would wake up super early the next day and start cramming again. Obviously this is don't aim to do this, but it's better than pulling an all nighter, because if you pull an all nighter, you'll literally be delirious in the exam hall. So, yeah, just don't do that. Completely agree. And I think the hard cut off of sleeping is actually great. This is rehashing an earlier topic just a little bit, but I think that if you truly have enough responsibilities that you feel like you don't have enough time for everything. Putting these hard stops on stuff like, I'm only going to work on this assignment until blank, or I'm only going to study until X. Time gives yourself an artificial limit, which I talk a lot sometimes on my TikTok about Parkinson's Law, which states that the amount of work will fill, or sorry, the work will fill the time allotted for its completion. And so you will basically get more done if you put that artificial limit on yourself than if you just gave yourself an extra couple of hours. And so I think that that can be super helpful when it comes to sleep, because you're like, no sleep is this important. I'm stopping here. I'm prioritizing sleep, and that's what I did. And it was actually funny because I did live in the fraternity house, which is a story for another day, many stories for many days. But I would get up into my bed long while everyone else is still out doing whatever on the weekdays, because I knew that I needed that sleep. And I was known as the guy who would just be geriatric and go to bed super early, even while I lived in the fraternity house. That's funny. So as we sort of wrap up, I think that we've talked a lot about different ways to succeed in college in different ways or different meanings of success in college. I think that it's also important to note that college is a time to try new things and don't try and or don't be so focused on min maxing stuff that you forget to enjoy it. I know that we talked about enjoying it in social life and stuff like that, but we also talked about that as kind of through an analytical sense. There is some sentiment of like, okay, this is my gradual transition into adulthood, is what I call it. And so embrace that and enjoy it as much as possible. And do you have any final words, Ben? Yeah, absolutely. Just if you're like a rising freshman right now, or maybe even you are a freshman going to second year or third year or fourth year, whatever the case may be, just make the most of this time, right? Just really focus on experiences, as we said before, but just make sure that none of these categories fall too far off the rails to where you can't kind of recover them. That's great. If you are interested in seeing more of what we do, please subscribe follow go watch the previous episode. We have both of our socials go follow us there. And if you have any requests for topics you'd like to see in future episodes, then please leave those below in the comments section as well. If you're watching this on YouTube, but without further ado, I think we'll see you in the next episode. So this has been Ax eight. This has been Ben, and thanks for watching and listening. Bye.